# Objective
The goal of this project is to create a fully cloud-based solution for my home server, which runs an SQL Server, a WebAPI and also stores and serve images to the clients. 
The objective of this project is to design and implement a fully cloud-based replacement for my current home server infrastructure. At present, the home server hosts an SQL Server database, exposes a WebAPI for client applications and provides storage and delivery of images. The new solution will migrate these core functions to Azure, ensuring scalability, reliability, maintainability and availability. The overall aim is to reduce on-premises maintenance requirements and being more cost efficient.

# Current architecture
## Overview
Currently my home server provides the backend infrastructure for my self-developed mobile app. The server is responsible for managing data storage, application logic and file hosting. All of these resources are hosted on a single on-premises machine. These services run using Docker Compose.
### PostgreSQL
PostgreSQL Server is responsible for persistent data storage in an organized manner. 
### WebAPI
The self-developed webAPI acts as the intermediary between the database and the client app. The API is responsible for processing the client requests, querying the database and serving the client with the needed data. It also communicates with a third-party API (PlantNet), so the mobile app does not need to know the API key for it. This enables the mobile app to remain lightweight, as the complex operations run on the backend.
### Image storage
Image storage is implemented as a basic directory on the server, which is mounted to the webAPI in the Docker Compose file. The webAPI serves these images to the client if needed.
### Other services
In addition to the core components, several supporting services are utilized to simplify day-to-day operations and improve the overall usability of the system.
- Webmin is used to remotely access the server inside of the network, making the configuration much easier.
- PGAdmin is used to directly access PostgreSQL, while giving it a GUI for easier maintenance.
- NginX Proxy Manager is used for accessing the server from outside of the network.
These services will no longer be necessary after migrating to the cloud, as Azure provides a web-based management portal (GUI) that simplifies configuration and maintenance, built-in domain name management for hosted services as well as security solutions.
### Limitations
There are some limitations in using an on-premises self-hosted server. One of them is the hardware. At the moment, the server is an old computer, which is great for development purposes, but as the application grows, there are more and more services and much more data, and the hardware can’t handle the load. The other drawback is that the server needs to be running at all time to ensure availability, which is very costly, and is not utilized. 
# Used technologies
## Azure SQL Database
Azure SQL Database will provide the base of the persistent data storage for the solution. It will allow me to store the data in an organized manner, while making it easy to query through the database and select only the desired types or items.
## Azure Blob storage
Azure Blob storage will be the solution for image storage. It makes it easy to store files, organize them into directories and access them. I will mimic the current solution and organize the images into folders.
## Azure Container Apps 
Azure Container Apps will be responsible for running my webAPI, as it is already developed for Docker. It is a better solution than Azure App Services, because it is a serverless solution, meaning that it can automatically scale in respect to the demand. This will allow me to scale down to zero if it is not in use, which will make the solution much more cost effective. 
## GitHub Actions
Fortunately, Azure has a great integration with GitHub, so I will be able to create an automated pipeline using GitHub Actions. This means that if a new version of the webAPI is pushed into the GitHub repository, GitHub Actions will take the lead and go through the whole pipeline, stop if an error occurs, but otherwise publish the new version to Azure Container Apps. If a publish happens, it means that the version is ready to deploy to production.

# Implementation
## Resource Groups
In the Azure environment, resource groups are used to link together the used services in a solution. Before the start of the implementation of the services, I must create a new resource group. It can be achieved by searching for resource groups in Azure. The name of the resource group should be clear and unambiguous. Using the naming convention (resource type-application-location-environment-instance), I will call mine rg-diszkertesz-gerwest-dev-001.
## SQL Database
While creating a new SQL Database, I will select the previously created resource group, so it will be linked to my solution. We first have to create a new SQL Server, where I set the authentication to both Microsoft Entra ID and SQL authentication. The name of the database will be sqldb-diszkertesz-001. The pricing plan will be Serverless, because it is the most cost effective and I will be the only one to use the database, so it will be more than enough for now. Pricing plans can be adjusted in the future. The only drawback of the serverless option is that it will need time to set up after a period of unused time. I will also set the network connectivity to public endpoint and add firewall rules. I will allow other Azure services to communicate with the database, and my own IP address for data editing, but nothing else. I will also enable two different accesses to the database, one is the Microsoft Entra ID and the other is the basic SQL Authentication.
After this I can easily access the database through SQL Server Management Studio. All I need to do is to connect to the SQL Server, with the given URL, and authenticate myself. After entering the SSMS, I could easily copy the existing tables and establish the connections between them. I also set the keys and foreign keys and add a trigger function to create a new row into the details table, if one is made in the plants table.
Next, I make some modifications for the WebAPI’s code. I add the NuGet package, EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer, then use the new UseAzureSql option in the AddDbContext service.
Blob storage
First, I navigate to the Storage Account menu, then create a new storage account, linked to the appropriate resource group. I will name this as stdiszkerteszgerdev001, because storage account names cannot contain dashes. I will set the redundancy as Locally-redundant storage, because this will save the most cost for me.
Next, I will create an images Blob container, which will be the root directory for all of the images. The access level should be Blob, so anyone can read it, but not anyone can write to it. This way all of the images will get a public URL, which can be used to view the images. Now I can simply upload all of the images to this container. 
At this point I can remove the code part in the webAPI, that is responsible for serving the static files (images) from the server.
## Azure Container Apps
Azure Container Apps is responsible for running the Docker Image of the webAPI, which is published to a public Docker Hub repository. First of all, I have to create a new Container App Environment for the application, called caenv-diszkertesz-gerwest-dev-001. Inside this environment I can create the application itself called ca-diszkertesz-gerwest-dev-001. I have to specify the deployment source, which will be a container image (this is important for the steps later). Then I specify the image itself, and where to find it. In my case this is a public Docker Hub repository. I selected the smallest possible resources, to save costs. Ingress must be enabled, because this service must be accessible from anywhere by the mobile application. 
I also need to add any Environmental variables if needed. I can create secrets in the Container App context, so these environmental variables can be hidden, providing more security. After the initial setup and provisioning I can access my webAPI through a link provided by Azure. I can also check the logs in live if something went wrong.

# Production
All of these resources are created for production environment as well, so that testing and production can be clearly distinguished.

## GitHub Actions
### Detailed plan
The main purpose of my workflow is going to be to do a Static Application Security Testing (SAST), then build a Docker image, test it, push it to Docker Hub and deploy it to Azure.
SAST will check the code for known patterns of flaws, without actually starting the application.  The chosen solution will be SonarCloud for this purpose. It checks for code quality issues, bugs and vulnerabilities and it is very easily integrable to GitHub actions. To possibly stop the pipeline (throw error) I will implement the SonarQube Quality Gate, which will stop the pipeline based on the output of the scan. The next step will be to build a Docker image and test it. Docker has a GitHub Action, called Docker Scout, which can check the whole docker image, layer by layer for vulnerabilities. Docker Build and Push action is great for building and pushing the image to a specific image repository. The last step of the pipeline is going to be the deployment of the webAPI to the Azure portal, more specifically to the Container App ca-diszkertesz-gerwest-dev-001.
### Implementation
As the project already has its own GitHub repository, there is no need to create a new one, otherwise it would be necessary.
I create a new workflow, which will be responsible for the whole pipeline. I define different jobs for the different tasks, but they will depend on each other. At the top I define the events that trigger this pipeline, in my case it is a push in the branch dev inside the folder diszkerteszAPI/**.
The first job will be the SonarQube Scan and SonarQube Quality Gate. The first step is to sign in to SonarCloud with my GitHub account and add a new project with the GitHub repository. Next, I will generate a new token and put it into a GitHub repository secret called SONAR_TOKEN. This way I can access this sensitive data without leaking it.  
Next, I generate a base workflow file through SonarCloud webpage, under the Administration Analysis Method menu. The steps included in this file are: Set up JDK which is necessary to run the SonarScanner for .NET, Checkout which gets the source code from the repository, Caching which makes it run faster, Installation of the SonarQube Cloud scanner, Build and Analyze which actually analyses the code. I add a new step for the Quality Gate, which uses the premade action by SonarSource. Naturally, this generated code does not work exactly as I want it to work, so I have to do some tweaks. I have to specify the working-directory as diszkerteszAPI, because this is the only part of my project on which I want to run the pipeline.
The second job will first get the code using Checkout action. I have to log in to Docker Hub, that I will achieve by using Docker Login action and specify my username and password as GitHub secrets. Then I need to set up Docker Builder using a premade action by Docker, Docker Setup Buildx. I will use the SHA for the tag of the image. Then I will build the image using the Build and Push Docker images action, with push disabled and context set to diszkerteszAPI. I will use the Docker Scout action to scan the image. Then I use again the Docker Build and Push but now I set the push attribute to true, so the image will be pushed to Docker Hub. Load attribute is also set to true at this point, so the image is not built twice, but the already built image will be loaded and pushed.
The last job will make sure that the image is deployed to Azure Container Apps. Azure has its own premade action called Azure Container Apps Build and Deploy. Before this step I have to log in to Azure portal using the Azure Login action. My credentials are saved in GitHub secrets, so it is not directly accessible, making it much more secure. These credentials are not the same as my login credentials. I have to create new credentials with the correct access level for my pipeline. To do this I open the Azure Cloud CLI and type in the command 
az ad sp create-for-rbac  --name "github-actions-deploy" --role "Container Apps Contributor" --scopes /subscriptions/<SUBSCRIPTION_ID> /resourceGroups/<RESOURCE_GROUP>  --sdk-auth
where subscription ID and resource group are both filled in with the appropriate values from Azure. This creates a new role-based access and gives a JSON file, which can be used as Azure Credentials. The next step is to deploy the image to Azure Container Apps. This can be achieved by using Azure’s action, where I have to specify some attributes. First of all, I save the registry URL as a job level environment variable, so I can change it anytime without having to go through the whole code. Then I specify this registry URL for the action, and naturally the credentials as well. I specify the image that needs to be deployed, which will be the same image that was created and pushed in the previous step. The last thing I have to specify is the exact location where I want to deploy this container. Resource group, container app environment and the container name needs to be provided.
Code adjustments
Naturally, I have to change the code in the mobile application as well after migrating to the cloud, so that the mobile application can access the data from the cloud. The URL which is used for accessing the data must be changed to the Container apps URL, given by Azure. The same should be done for the image URLs too. It has to be the blob containers URL. Fortunately, the application itself was not developed to be very dependent on the backend, so I have to just adjust these settings.

# Opportunities to improve
## Azure Front Door
Azure Front Door is the solution to access data from all over the world, without the need to wait for the files to travel through many networks. It uses Azure’s own edge technology, so the files can be accessed faster, and they can be easily cached. It would  allow me to give a unique URL for all of the images, so instead of the access path (which is used in the current solution), I could store these URLs in the database, which will allow the mobile application to access these images much faster. Unfortunately, with the current subscription (Student) it is not free. It would cost approximately 40 USD a month, including the monthly fee and the calculated transactions, which is out of the budget for this project.
## Azure Key Vault
Azure Key Vault is used for storing secrets through the whole resource group. This solution would be extra useful especially if there are multiple services that use the same secrets, for example there are multiple webAPIs that use the same connection string. However, this is not the case for this project, and it would add a lot of extra cost.
## Azure Security measurements
Azure offers a lot of options for protecting your service and data, such as Encryption, Microsoft Defender for Cloud, Alerts, Logs. Although these solutions would be crucial for  real-life production, there is not much need for a small home project like this, especially considering the fact that most of these are not free, so using these services would increase the cost significantly. In real life production the Serverless solutions (database, container app) would have a minimum replica of at least one, getting rid of cold start waiting time.
## Authentication and authorization
Although even now every connection is encrypted using HTTPS, in a real-life example more authentication would be needed. For the webAPI, Azure AD B2C would be a perfect solution. The Blob storage should not use Blob read permission (public read), but rather Private read permission and configure SAS tokens for the webAPI. This way only the webAPI could access the images, not everyone, who knows the direct URL for them.
